README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: Base Configuration for Debian/RHEL

[![CI](https://github.com/radtkedev/ansible-role-base/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/radtkedev/ansible-role-base/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

A role for configuring common server settings on Debian and RHEL-based systems.

## Usage
Install Git and Ansible on your machine, clone the repository using `git clone https://github.com/radtkedev/ansible-role-base` and configure the variables in vars/main.yml. After that, create a playbook.yml file (one directory above the cloned one) with the following contents:
```
---
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - ansible-role-base
```

Use the following to run the playbook via root on the machine 192.168.0.100.
```
ansible-playbook -u root -i 192.168.0.100, playbook.yml
```

Alternatively this, should you be using a simple user account with sudo priviliges. If you use passwordless sudo, remove the `-K` option.
```
ansible-playbook -bK -u someusername -i 192.168.0.100, playbook.yml
```

## Tasks
- Update system and install basic packages
- Reduce bootloader wait time from 5s to 1s (grub)
- Automated security updates (dnf-automatic or unattended-upgrades)
- SSH keys and configuration
- NTP time servers specified (chronyd or systemd-timesyncd)
- Configure SELinux
- Create swapfile
- Install Docker
- Install Tailscale

## Configuration
Variables for configuration are provided in vars/main.yml.

Packages can be configured via the list. Note that these packages are available under both Debian and RHEL-based systems, others you add may not be.
```
packages:
  - net-tools
  - vim
  - zip
  - unzip
```

The SSH directory allows you to specify where to install the ssh key(s).
```
ssh_dir: "/root"
ssh_keys:
  - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIDPiflDGONaY4ppQqOWh9tlo6bDwY5BfRqWcHyAv/dev
```

Common SSH settings are configurable too, but just the following variables are configurable.
```
ssh_permitrootlogin: "prohibit-password"
ssh_passwordauthentication: "no"
ssh_challengeresponseauthentication: "no"
ssh_printmotd: "no"
ssh_printlastlog: "no"
```

NTP will be configured using chronyd on RHEL or systemd-timesyncd on Debian if enabled
```
ntp_configure: "true"
ntp_servers:
  - time.cloudflare.com
```

SELinux will be configured if RHEL is used
```
selinux_policy: "targeted"
selinux_state: "enforcing"
```

Swapfiles are also used, this setting can be disabled if swap partitions are used
```
swapfile_enabled: "true"
swapfile_size: "2G"
```

Autoupdate will be configured using dnf-automatic on RHEL or unattended-upgrades on Debian where automatic reboot time can be specified
```
autoupdate_enabled: "true"
autoupdate_debian_reboot: "false"
autoupdate_debian_reboot_time: "03:00"
```

To allow boot menu selection while not extending the boot time by 5 seconds, the role configures the timeout to 1s by default
```
grub_timeout: "1"
```

Install the docker repository and package
```
docker_configure: "true"
```

Install the tailscale repository and package. After this, a prompt to enter an auth key will appear.
```
tailscale_configure: "true"
```

Commit message:

Add tailscale exit node option

README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: Base Configuration for Debian/RHEL

[![CI](https://github.com/radtkedev/ansible-role-base/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/radtkedev/ansible-role-base/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

A role for configuring common server settings on Debian and RHEL-based systems.

## Usage
Install Git and Ansible on your machine, clone the repository using `git clone https://github.com/radtkedev/ansible-role-base` and configure the variables in vars/main.yml. After that, create a playbook.yml file (one directory above the cloned one) with the following contents:
```
---
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - ansible-role-base
```

Use the following to run the playbook via root on the machine 192.168.0.100.
```
ansible-playbook -u root -i 192.168.0.100, playbook.yml
```

Alternatively this, should you be using a simple user account with sudo priviliges. If you use passwordless sudo, remove the `-K` option.
```
ansible-playbook -bK -u someusername -i 192.168.0.100, playbook.yml
```

## Tasks
- Update system and install basic packages
- Reduce bootloader wait time from 5s to 1s (grub)
- Automated security updates (dnf-automatic or unattended-upgrades)
- SSH keys and configuration
- NTP time servers specified (chronyd or systemd-timesyncd)
- Configure SELinux
- Create swapfile
- Install Docker
- Install Tailscale

## Configuration
Variables for configuration are provided in vars/main.yml.

Packages can be configured via the list. Note that these packages are available under both Debian and RHEL-based systems, others you add may not be.
```
packages:
  - net-tools
  - vim
  - zip
  - unzip
```

The SSH directory allows you to specify where to install the ssh key(s).
```
ssh_dir: "/root"
ssh_keys:
  - ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIDPiflDGONaY4ppQqOWh9tlo6bDwY5BfRqWcHyAv/dev
```

Common SSH settings are configurable too, but just the following variables are configurable.
```
ssh_permitrootlogin: "prohibit-password"
ssh_passwordauthentication: "no"
ssh_challengeresponseauthentication: "no"
ssh_printmotd: "no"
ssh_printlastlog: "no"
```

NTP will be configured using chronyd on RHEL or systemd-timesyncd on Debian if enabled
```
ntp_configure: "true"
ntp_servers:
  - time.cloudflare.com
```

SELinux will be configured if RHEL is used
```
selinux_policy: "targeted"
selinux_state: "enforcing"
```

Swapfiles are also used, this setting can be disabled if swap partitions are used
```
swapfile_enabled: "true"
swapfile_size: "2G"
```

Autoupdate will be configured using dnf-automatic on RHEL or unattended-upgrades on Debian where automatic reboot time can be specified
```
autoupdate_enabled: "true"
autoupdate_debian_reboot: "false"
autoupdate_debian_reboot_time: "03:00"
```

To allow boot menu selection while not extending the boot time by 5 seconds, the role configures the timeout to 1s by default
```
grub_timeout: "1"
```

Install the docker repository and package
```
docker_configure: "true"
```

Install the tailscale repository and package. After this, a prompt to enter an auth key will appear. Tailscale can be configured to advertise as an exit node with the option below
```
tailscale_configure: "true"
tailscale_exit_node: "true"
```
